***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:A programming language is a formal language comprising a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output. Programming languages are used in computer programming to implement algorithms.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets.

       It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is an IDE?
Answer:An IDE, or Integrated Development Environment, enables programmers to consolidate the different aspects of writing a computer program.

       IDEs increase programmer productivity by combining common activities of writing software into a single application: editing source code, building executables, and debugging.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:Answer:Eclipse,IntelliJ IDEA,BlueJ,jGRASP


Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:

What is a class?
Answer: A class is a blueprint that defines the variables and the methods common to all objects of a certain kind.

What is an object?
Answer:An object is any entity that has a state and behavior.An object is called an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer: where the first instructions of a program are executed, and where the program has access to command line arguments

Why is the main() static?
Answer:because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:Path and Classpath both are operating system level environment variales. Path is used define where the system can find the executables files and classpath is used to specify the location .class files.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:Abstract classes can have constants, members, method stubs (methods without a body) and defined methods, whereas interfaces can only have constants and methods stubs.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:NO,if we try to instantiate an interface, a compile time error will be generated saying “MyInterface is abstract; cannot be instantiated”.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:A Java access modifier specifies which classes can access a given class and its fields, constructors and methods.A Java access modifier specifies which classes can access a given class and its fields, constructors and methods

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:Object Oriented programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm that relies on the concept of classes and objects. It is used to structure a software program into simple, reusable pieces of code blueprints , which are used to create individual instances of objects. Abstraction: means using simple things to represent complexity,In Java, abstraction means simple things like objects, classes, and variables represent more complex underlying code and data.Encapsulation:is used to hide the values or state of a structured data object inside a class , preventing unauthorized parties' direct access to them.Inheritance :is a feature that helps to reuse the methods and variables of one class in another class,it allows a new class to inherit the properties and functions of an existing class without rewriting the code.Polymorphism:Polymorphism means "many forms", and it occurs when we have many classes that are related to each other by inheritance This allows us to perform a single action in different ways.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:A package in Java is used to group related classes. Think of it as a folder in a file directory. We use packages to avoid name conflicts, and to write a better maintainable code.java.lang package

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:An application programming interface is a computing interface that defines interactions between multiple software applications or mixed hardware-software intermediaries.Facebook login,tweeter,Google,Github,pay with paypal

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:No, a class cannot extend more than one class.

What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:If a class has multiple methods having same name but different in parameters, it is known as Method Overloading.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:An exception  is a problem that arises during the execution of a program.Catching Exceptions using try catch,Catching All Exceptions,Catching Multiple Exceptions,Closing Resources,Throwing Exceptions – Throw keyword,

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods, blocks and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class. Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class. The main method of a class is generally labeled static.Use a static class to contain methods that are not associated with a particular object,

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them non-changeable.The final keyword is useful when you want a variable to always store the same value,we can declare some or all of a class's methods final. You use the final keyword in a method declaration to indicate that the method cannot be overridden by subclasses

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:The final is a keyword in Java that prevents changing variables, avoid method overriding and avoid extending classes.The finally is a block in Java exception handling, that will execute whether an exception is thrown or not.The finalize is a method in Java, called by the garbage collector before it destroys the object completely.The final is applicable for variables, methods and classes.The finally is applicable with a try and catch blocks.The finalize is applicable for objects.

What is a constructor?
Answer:A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is called when an object of a class is created. It can be used to set initial values for object attributes

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:if a class does not explicitly declare any constructors,the java platform automatically provides a no-argument constructor,called the default constructor that does nothing

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:this keyword in Java is a reference variable that refers to the current object of a method or a constructor.The main purpose of using this keyword in Java is to remove the confusion between class attributes and parameters that have same names

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.

       Whenever you create the instance of subclass, an instance of parent class is created implicitly which is referred by super reference variable.super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:no

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:8

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK is Java Development Kit and JVM is Java Virtual Machine. JDK contains JVM and whole other tools for java development inside it. JVM converts bytecode to machine code and execute it on machine. There is no matching functionality between JDK and JVM.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:The main function of JRE is to provide a runtime environment to run java applications whereas JVM converts byte code to machine code for execution and provides platform independence. JRE acts as container and jvm acts as content.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code while the run time is the time at which the executable code is started running.Compile time errors are syntax and semantic errors while Compile time errors are syntax and semantic errors.

What is heap?
Answer:Heap is a section of memory which contains Objects and may also contain reference variables. Instance variables are created in the heap

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:Java does memory management automatically.Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:Strings are immutable while StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable, So, Strings cannot be changed when you use the String class; whereas Strings can change if you use the StringBuffer and StringBuilder class.StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer as it offers no synchronization. This is because no extra overhead needs to be added to the system and also does not slows down the processing.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.
       After first time, if we try to instantiate the Singleton class, the new variable also points to the first instance created

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory. This mechanism is used to persist the object. The byte stream created is platform independent.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:Summary of While vs. Do-While Loop. In a nutshell, the structure of a while loop is very similar to that of a do-while loop, but the main difference lies in the fact that the while loop evaluates the condition first before executing the statements whereas the do-while loop executes the statements first before evaluating the condition of the loop.

What is Enum?
Answer:An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables).

What is Iterator?
Answer:An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet. It is called an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping. To use an Iterator, you must import it from the java.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:Integer,int takes 4 bytes while Integer takes 16 bytes

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:In the String constant pool, a String object is likely to have one or many references. If several references point to same String without even knowing it, it would be bad if one of the references modified that String value. That's why String objects are immutable.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:The process of invoking a sequence of constructors upon initialization of a class object is called constructor chaining. Constructor chaining is useful when you want to invoke multiple constructors, one after another, by initializing only one instance.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:. The primary difference between the serial and parallel collectors is that the parallel collector has multiple threads that are used to speed up garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:Java-In-Time Compiler

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management. Java programs compile to bytecode that can be run on a Java Virtual Machine, or JVM for short. When Java programs run on the JVM, objects are created on the heap, which is a portion of memory dedicated to the program.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:NO

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution. Whenever an object is created, it's always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Reflection is a process of exploring and examining ourselves, our perspectives, attributes, experiences and actions / interactions. It helps us gain insight and see how to move forward

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU. Each part of such program is called a thread. So, threads are light-weight processes within a process

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource. Java Synchronization is better option where we want to allow only one thread to access the shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer:Framework are the bodies that contains the pre-written codes (classes and functions) in which we can add our code to overcome the problem

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:JBehave, JUnit,Serenity, TestNG, Selenide,Gauge,Geb

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks. Tasks may have multiple preceding tasks and multiple succeeding tasks. The most common dependency relationship is a finish-to-start relationship. Task P (predecessor) must be finished before task S (successor) can start

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside DI can be implemented in any programming language. The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion of Control. A Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding. Overloaded methods are resolved (deciding which method to be called when there are multiple methods with same name) using static binding while overridden methods using dynamic binding, i.e, at run time.